Update the README file (#1)
sergepilipchuk/maui-generate-data-bound-report: README.md

[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/📖_How_to_use_DevExpress_Examples-e9f6fc?style=flat-square)](https://docs.devexpress.com/GeneralInformation/403183)
<!-- default badges end -->

# DevExpress Reporting for .NET MAUI - Generate and Display a Data-Bound Report

This example uses [DevExpress PDF Viewer for .NET MAUI](https://docs.devexpress.com/MAUI/404632/pdf-viewer/pdf-viewer) to display a data-bound report in a mobile app. 

> You can adjust this example to use any previously-defined report. In this repository, the **ReportLibrary** folder contains the data source and the report layout definition. We constructed the report with the help of the [DevExpress Report Designer](https://docs.devexpress.com/MAUI/404437/reporting/reporting-overview) and named the report class `XtraReportInstance`. The code below creates this object to generate a report document. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can adjust this example to use any existing report. In this repository, the **ReportLibrary** folder contains the data source and the report layout definition. We constructed the report with the help of the [DevExpress Report Designer](https://docs.devexpress.com/MAUI/404437/reporting/reporting-overview) and named the report class `XtraReportInstance`. The code below creates this object to generate a report document. 
```

> # DevExpress Reporting for .NET MAUI - Generate Bound-Data Report

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# DevExpress Reporting for .NET MAUI - Generate and Display a Data-Bound Report
```

> This example generates a data-bound report in the [DevExpress Report Designer](https://docs.devexpress.com/MAUI/404437/reporting/reporting-overview) and displays it in the [PDF Viewer for .NET MAUI](https://docs.devexpress.com/MAUI/404632/pdf-viewer/pdf-viewer). To use Reporting APIs in a .NET MAUI project, you need a license that includes [DevExpress Reporting](https://www.devexpress.com/subscriptions/reporting/).

Reviewer 2: In the description, you skip the part that actually creates the report layout. The first step already creates an `XtraReportInstance` object... But that object is a report with predefined layout. And to understand what this report does, our customers would need to review files in the **ReportLibrary** folder. 

We can go two different ways: 
- Mention the ReportLibrary folder and say that they can review those files and that this is where `XtraReportInstance` is defined. 
- Describe the entire process of how to create a report. 

I'm guessing you don't want to describe how to create a report, so we'll go with the first option. 

```suggestion
This example uses [DevExpress PDF Viewer for .NET MAUI](https://docs.devexpress.com/MAUI/404632/pdf-viewer/pdf-viewer) to display a data-bound report in a mobile app. 

You can adjust this example to use any previously-defined report. In this repository, the **ReportLibrary** folder contains the data source and the report layout definition. We constructed the report with the help of the [DevExpress Report Designer](https://docs.devexpress.com/MAUI/404437/reporting/reporting-overview) and named the report class `XtraReportInstance`. The code below creates this object to generate a report document. 

**NOTE**: To use Reporting APIs in a .NET MAUI project, you need a license that includes [DevExpress Reporting](https://www.devexpress.com/subscriptions/reporting/).
```

<img width="40%" alt="DevExpress Reporting for .NET MAUI - Generate Bound-Data Report" src="Images/app-preview.png">

## Included Controls and Their Properties

* [PdfViewer](https://docs.devexpress.com/MAUI/DevExpress.Maui.Pdf.PdfViewer): [ShowToolbar](https://docs.devexpress.com/MAUI/DevExpress.Maui.Pdf.PdfViewer.ShowToolbar), [DocumentSource](https://docs.devexpress.com/MAUI/DevExpress.Maui.Pdf.PdfViewer.DocumentSource)

## Implementation Details

1. Define the `CreateTableReportAsync()` function that creates a new report. Use the `XtraReportInstance()` constructor to generate a report instance. Call the [`CreateDocument()`](https://docs.devexpress.com/XtraReports/DevExpress.XtraReports.UI.XtraReport.CreateDocument) method to create a document from the report:

    ```csharp
    public async Task<XtraReport> CreateTableReportAsync() {
        XtraReportInstance report = null;
        await Task.Run(() =>
        {
            report = new XtraReportInstance() { Name = "Sample" };
            report.CreateDocument();
        });
        return report;
    }
    ```

> 2. Call the `CreateTableReportAsync()` function to generate a new report and get a path to the report:

Reviewer 2: The path is just the file where you will export the report. You use the same line in the next step - no need to mention it here. 

```suggestion
2. When the page loads, call the `CreateTableReportAsync()` function to generate a new report:
```

    ```csharp
    private async void ContentPage_Loaded(object sender, EventArgs e) {
        XtraReport report = await CreateTableReportAsync();

>         string resultFile = Path.Combine(FileSystem.Current.AppDataDirectory, report.Name + ".pdf");

Reviewer 2: No need for this line - you have it in the next step (and it makes more sense there).

```suggestion

```

        // ...
    }
    ```

3. Call the `ExportToPdf(resultFile)` method to convert the report to PDF:

    ```csharp
    private async void ContentPage_Loaded(object sender, EventArgs e) {

>         XtraReport report = await CreateTableReportAsync();

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't repeat the same lines in every code snippet: 

```suggestion
        // ...
```

        string resultFile = Path.Combine(FileSystem.Current.AppDataDirectory, report.Name + ".pdf");
        report.ExportToPdf(resultFile);
        // ...    
    }
    ```

4. Use the `PdfViewer.DocumentSource` property to open the report in the PDF Viewer control:

    ```csharp
    private async void ContentPage_Loaded(object sender, EventArgs e) {

>         XtraReport report = await CreateTableReportAsync();
>         string resultFile = Path.Combine(FileSystem.Current.AppDataDirectory, report.Name + ".pdf");
>         report.ExportToPdf(resultFile);

Reviewer 2: Again, no need to repeat the same lines: 

```suggestion
        // ...
```
